western mongolia is 3000km from any plate boundary, yet it has had 4 of the largest strike-slip earthquakes ever, inlcuding an 8.4 in 1905
not going to explain why that happens, but i'm going to focus on the active tectonics of an important region in western mongolia. understanding the processes happening at a smaller scale will help to understand the broder scale deformation in central asia. also, compared to plate boundaries, intracontinental deformation is poorly understood, so basic research on the processes involved is important.
so, the focus of this presentation: the shargyn basin is located at the intersection of two major strike slip fault systems. it's a big hole in a location where uplift might be expected
before, we get into more detail about the basin itself, let's step out and think about deformation in all of Mongolia. 
[slide3](step through the pieces of the figure)
[slide4]In any area, past structural features are a primary control on the location of current faulting. In many places in Mongolia, the active faults are 20-30 degree different in angle from what would be expected due to the stress field. This is probably because of pre-existing structural weaknesses from Mesozoic and Paleozoic tectonic events. 
(briefly describe the history of western mongolia's tectonics)
[slide5]This slide shows the strike of the most important paleozoic structural features in mongolia. Notice how the gobi-altai range in the south approximately follows the WWN-EES strike of the foliation there. Also the altai... Also, important are the Hangay block and Junggar block. The Hangay block, on the previous slide is a bunch of coalesced microcontinents forming a relatively strong block. However, there have been recent discoveries of important faults through the Hangay block. To the southwest, Junggar... We don't have any data on the basement rock underneath the Shargyn Basin, however, the fact that these faults and the foliation follow the borders around it suggests that the basin may be underlain by a mechanically strong piece of crust. I'll discuss this more soon, but first let's talk about the descriptive structure and tectonics of the area. 
[slide6] describe the basin types
[slide7] describe the basic structure of the shargyn basin on the simplified figure
[slide8] emphasize variety of interactions in the region, then talk about each of the faults briefly, before getting into further interpretation, I'll show you some of the work that went into these results. each of the white boxes is an area that we studied in the field
[slide9] some of the work was done here in cambridge via satellite imagery. here is a beautiful example of a strike-slip cutting through an alluvial fan. see offset stream beds
[slide10-15] talk about the khantaishir range and the two displayed thrust expos Liz:  yeah, they helped them recognize errors
like thinking someone who raises their voice is hostile to them in general
or failing one assignment or having one disciplinary problem and giving up on school
ures showing where they are using the general map
[slide16] now, we return to interpreting the evidence gathered. so far, we have two main points indicating that the shargyn basin is strong. 1. current deformation does not fault the basin. in fact, it steps around the basin in this complex pattern rather than an a priori simpler structure where the bogd fault just cuts across the basin. 2. past deformation may have avoided the basin as well. the foliation in the area is parallel to the basin margin at almost all locations. there is a third piece of evidence for a strong shargyn basin 
[slide17] this is a map of bouguer gravity anomalies in western mongolia. because bouguer anomalies measurements correct for terrain and altitude, isostasy should cause large mountainous areas to have negative bouguer anomalies. lower basins should have more positive bouguer anomalies. use altai, hangai and valley of lakes as examples. however, if you look at the shargyn basin here (flash the outline), the basin itself is blue -- a more negative anomaly than the mountain ranges around it which are green showing a more positive anomaly. that's the opposite of what we'd expect from isostasy! so, maybe the crust under the shargyn basin is denser than the surrounding area. though denser does not inherently imply harder to fault, it does indicate that something is different, and so the lack of faulting could be attributed to the density anomaly. in the junggar basin to the southwest (another unfaulted basin amidst the ongoing central asian deformation), lack of deformation has been blamed on a dense block of oceanic crust. a similar explanation is possible for the shargyn basin. 
[slide18] summarize

