Reasons strong crust is interpreted:

TARIM:
citations are on page 2 of Neil and Houseman
lack of deformation both present and past
low topo/flat topo in the tarim basin
lack of crustal thickening -- how does one determine crustal thickness?
Altyn Tagh fault separates weaker to the south from stronger to the north -- similar to the gobi altai fault?
Tian Shan is weak and repeatedly deformed and reactived through the meso/ceno
-- how to get at the meso/ceno history for shargyn basin? only thing i can think of is the cretaceous sandstones

SICHUAN
citations are from  Royden, burchfiel, vanderhilst 2008, science
fast P wave propagation to 250km --> cold, cratonlike crust
steep plateau margin (topography)

citations from Burchfiel 2008 -- wenchuan earthquake paper in GSA Today
-- references some P-wave speed model papers
also references some crustal thickness paper
10km of seds, mainly mesozoic and paleozoic, not so much quaternary stuff on top...
also remains mostly undeformed in the meso/ceno like tarim
how large is it? 300km x 200km, so shargyn basin isn't unreasonably small

JUNGGAR:
No information I can find hypothesizes why it isn't uplifted. But, it should be a highly relevant question because the Tian Shan are super high but not very wide and are bordered by both the Tarim to the south and the Junggar to the north. Furthermore, the Junggar is bordered to the north by the Altai mountains. One possible explanation is the Eurasian left-lateral shear zone idea (from Sea of Oman to Sea of Japan). The blocks are tilted and bookshelfed such that the right lateral faults formed. But, that still doesn't answer why the right-lateral fault formed where the altai are and not further south in the current Junggar basin. A possible explanation that avoids declaring the Junggar basin to be weak is if the important pre-existing structures in the area are oriented more favorably in the Altai (they are, in fact, oriented very favorably!) than in the Junggar basin, thus leading to a localization of slip there. 

Yin 2010 suggests that the Tarim basin and the Junggar basin may have been a contiguous low area until the early Miocene when the Tian Shan were uplifted. The altai begin uplifting around the same time. Why did deformation jump further north beyond Tibet "suddenly" in the Miocene? 

Also Carroll et. al. 1990 suggests that the Junggar basin is underlain by an old ocean basin. I should read a little bit more about this. Are ocean basins mechanically strong?
